README.md, before:


![Alt Text](UnityScreenshot01.png)


**360 ROOM, CSULB, UNITY SETUP**


This project aims to help my students at CSULB for setting up content for Igloo 360 Room:

- Download the entire package
- use "Unreal-Unity-DocsAndToolkit(1).zip" and "Unity Game Engine Camera System" to install all requirements for installing Igloo Toolkit in your Unity
- Prepare your videos: Video size: 8000 x 1000 (Quicktime .MOV)
- Using Unity Hub open "CSULB Fall 2022"
- The main scenes is under "Scenes"> "Example1". 
- Please note you need to have Blender installed. https://www.blender.org/download/ You also use Unity version 2021.3.0f1.



Please note that you have three different setup options here (you can enable each option and use it in your project):


**1. "Room Simple" will respond to buttons inputs:**
-  you have to select ""Room Simple" on the Hierarchy menu and click diplay on inspector (turn "Room with Graph Shader off")
-  room has a basic render texture (material) using Universal Render Pipelinie.
-  video content responds to Arduino input (pressing two buttons make videos to change). 
-  note: Select "Room Simple" in Unity and go to "inspector"> "Arduino to Unity Simple (Script)": you have to change the "serial port- ame". eg. "COM6" to your port number.
-  note: Select "Room Simple" > "inspector" > "Video Player": you will also need to add four videos under video clips. 
    
   -  button 1 button 2
   -     [0]       [0]
   -     [1]       [1]
   -     [0]       [1]
   -     [1]       [0] 
       Four different combinations of buttons could activat different videos 
- In case you like to learn about displaying video in a surface in Unity using Render Texture, you can watch this tutorial: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=KG2aq_CY7pU&ab_channel=Unity
- For wiring and explanation of ultrasonic sensor you can read this: https://randomnerdtutorials.com/complete-guide-for-ultrasonic-sensor-hc-sr04/

![Buttons](arduinoButtons.png)



**2. "Room with Graph Shader":**
- you have to select "Room with Graph Shader" on the Hierarchy menu and click diplay on inspector (turn "Room Simple off")
- This room has a basic graph shader with a glowing effect which respond to ultrasonic sensor value (distance). 
- Shader Graph has two inputs: Texture2D which is our "Room RT" (Render Texture) and "Sensor Value" which comes from our sensor. Sensor value has been clamped and remaped in order to manipulate the color of fragment shador.
![GraphShader](arduinoUltrasonic.png)
- Please note for Graph Shaders to be working you need to install Universal Render Pipeline. Here is a basic tutorial on Graph Shaders: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Ar9eIn4z6XE
- Here is the instruction on how to install the Universal Render Pipeline into an existing Project: https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.render-pipelines.universal@7.1/manual/InstallURPIntoAProject.html


![GraphShader](UnityScreenshot02.png)

**3. "Room with GS Pixelating based on Audio":**
- This room will be interactive to audio level.
- As you make audio the video is getting pixelatted. I used a library called "Lasp" for tracking audio and using gain to pixelate the texture2D in Shader Graph.
- https://github.com/keijiro/Lasp
- Please note that under Audio Source we have "Audio Level Tracker", where I unchecked the "Auto Gain". You can change the Gain(db) to fine tube the value of your audio sensivity.
- Under "Inspector" enable "Room with GS Pixelating based on Audio. There is a scrip called "Send Audio to GS" which allow reading the audiolevel from Lasp Library and send it to GraphShader as "_audioLevel". 
- In Shader Graph, we are changing the value of pixellation by the audio level recieved from the microphone of the laptop. You can add any other microphone as your input in the room and capture the audio.   
- ![GraphShader](ShaderGraphAudio.png)
- ![GraphShader](ShaderGraphAudio.gif)


**3."Room with TUI"**
This is still under development...

Commit message:

update Room with GraphShader to include transition between different videos with Ultrasonic Sensor. Also progress on TUI added

README.md, after:


![Alt Text](UnityScreenshot01.png)


**360 ROOM, CSULB, UNITY SETUP**


This project aims to help my students at CSULB for setting up content for Igloo 360 Room:

- Download the entire package
- use "Unreal-Unity-DocsAndToolkit(1).zip" and "Unity Game Engine Camera System" to install all requirements for installing Igloo Toolkit in your Unity
- Prepare your videos: Video size: 8000 x 1000 (Quicktime .MOV)
- Using Unity Hub open "CSULB Fall 2022"
- The main scenes is under "Scenes"> "Example1". 
- Please note you need to have Blender installed. https://www.blender.org/download/ You also use Unity version 2021.3.0f1.



Please note that you have three different setup options here (you can enable each option and use it in your project):


**1. "Room Simple" will respond to buttons inputs:**
-  you have to select ""Room Simple" on the Hierarchy menu and click diplay on inspector (turn "Room with Graph Shader off")
-  room has a basic render texture (material) using Universal Render Pipelinie.
-  video content responds to Arduino input (pressing two buttons make videos to change). 
-  note: Select "Room Simple" in Unity and go to "inspector"> "Arduino to Unity Simple (Script)": you have to change the "serial port- ame". eg. "COM6" to your port number.
-  note: Select "Room Simple" > "inspector" > "Video Player": you will also need to add four videos under video clips. 
    
   -  button 1 button 2
   -     [0]       [0]
   -     [1]       [1]
   -     [0]       [1]
   -     [1]       [0] 
       Four different combinations of buttons could activat different videos 
- In case you like to learn about displaying video in a surface in Unity using Render Texture, you can watch this tutorial: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=KG2aq_CY7pU&ab_channel=Unity
- For wiring and explanation of ultrasonic sensor you can read this: https://randomnerdtutorials.com/complete-guide-for-ultrasonic-sensor-hc-sr04/

![Buttons](arduinoButtons.png)



**2. "Room with Graph Shader Transitioning between multiple videos or changing brightness based on a sensor value":**
- you have to select "Room with Graph Shader" on the Hierarchy menu and click display on inspector (turn "Room Simple off")
- This room has a basic graph shader with a glowing effect which respond to ultrasonic sensor value (distance). 
- Shader Graph has two inputs: Texture2D which is our "Room RT" (Render Texture) and "Sensor Value" which comes from our sensor. Sensor value has been clamped and remaped in order to manipulate the color of Fragment Shader.
![GraphShader](arduinoUltrasonic.png)
- Please note for Graph Shaders to be working you need to install Universal Render Pipeline. Here is a basic tutorial on Graph Shaders: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Ar9eIn4z6XE
- Here is the instruction on how to install the Universal Render Pipeline into an existing Project: https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.render-pipelines.universal@7.1/manual/InstallURPIntoAProject.html
![GraphShader](UnityScreenshot02.png)
- Please note I provided two examples for Graph Shader responding to UltraSonic values. If you use "Transition between two videos" you can use the sensor value to switch and fade and out between two videos (render textures). Please note there are too values you can change to achieve desired effect. Under inspector you can change "Smooth Value": The larger the number it is faster responding to the transition. You can also change the "Switching Offset" in the Inspector to a desired value to fine tune the distance in which the fading between two videos are taking place.
![GraphShader](Transitioning video.gif)

**3. "Room with GS Pixelating based on Audio":**
- This room will be interactive to audio level.
- As you make audio the video is getting pixelatted. I used a library called "Lasp" for tracking audio and using gain to pixelate the texture2D in Shader Graph.
- https://github.com/keijiro/Lasp
- Please note that under Audio Source we have "Audio Level Tracker", where I unchecked the "Auto Gain". You can change the Gain(db) to fine tube the value of your audio sensivity.
- Under "Inspector" enable "Room with GS Pixelating based on Audio. There is a scrip called "Send Audio to GS" which allow reading the audiolevel from Lasp Library and send it to GraphShader as "_audioLevel". 
- In Shader Graph, we are changing the value of pixellation by the audio level recieved from the microphone of the laptop. You can add any other microphone as your input in the room and capture the audio.   
- ![GraphShader](ShaderGraphAudio.png)
- ![GraphShader](ShaderGraphAudio.gif)


**3."Room with TUI"**
This is still under development...  
We are using "reacTIVision" for interactive behavior using computer vision.
reacTIVision is an open source, cross-platform computer vision framework for the fast and robust tracking of fiducial markers attached onto physical objects, as well as for multi-touch finger tracking. https://reactivision.sourceforge.net/
